docs/user-guide/integrations/editor.md, before:

# Editor integrations

Editor integrations built and maintained by the community.

- [Ale](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale) - Vim plugin that supports stylelint.
- [Flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) - Emacs extension that supports stylelint.
- [linter-stylelint](https://github.com/AtomLinter/linter-stylelint) - Atom plugin for stylelint.
- [SublimeLinter-stylelint](https://github.com/SublimeLinter/SublimeLinter-stylelint) - Sublime Text plugin for stylelint.
- [SublimeLinter-contrib-stylelint_d](https://github.com/jo-sm/SublimeLinter-contrib-stylelint_d) - Sublime Text plugin for stylelint that run's on daemon.
- [WebStorm](https://blog.jetbrains.com/webstorm/2016/09/webstorm-2016-3-eap-163-4830-stylelint-usages-for-default-exports-and-more/) - version 2016.3 onwards has built-in support for stylelint.
- [vscode-stylelint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stylelint.vscode-stylelint) - VS Code extension for stylelint.
- [coc-stylelint](https://github.com/neoclide/coc-stylelint) - coc.nvim language server extension for neovim.

Commit message:

Mention alternative integration with Emacs
This is to prevent people like myself missing the right option and wasting time creating spurious issues like this one: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/issues/5274

docs/user-guide/integrations/editor.md, after:

# Editor integrations

Editor integrations built and maintained by the community.

- [Ale](https://github.com/dense-analysis/ale) - Vim plugin that supports stylelint.
- [Flycheck](https://github.com/flycheck/flycheck) - Emacs extension that supports stylelint. <br> Alternatively, if you use CLI option `--formatter=unix`, Emacs' *Compilation mode* will automatically hyperlink the lint messages.
- [linter-stylelint](https://github.com/AtomLinter/linter-stylelint) - Atom plugin for stylelint.
- [SublimeLinter-stylelint](https://github.com/SublimeLinter/SublimeLinter-stylelint) - Sublime Text plugin for stylelint.
- [SublimeLinter-contrib-stylelint_d](https://github.com/jo-sm/SublimeLinter-contrib-stylelint_d) - Sublime Text plugin for stylelint that run's on daemon.
- [WebStorm](https://blog.jetbrains.com/webstorm/2016/09/webstorm-2016-3-eap-163-4830-stylelint-usages-for-default-exports-and-more/) - version 2016.3 onwards has built-in support for stylelint.
- [vscode-stylelint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stylelint.vscode-stylelint) - VS Code extension for stylelint.
- [coc-stylelint](https://github.com/neoclide/coc-stylelint) - coc.nvim language server extension for neovim.
