# Migrating to 14.0.0

This release contains breaking changes. We know these can be disruptive, but they were needed to keep our dependencies up to date and stylelint free of security issues.

## Users

### Custom syntaxes

We no longer include PostCSS syntaxes (for languages like SCSS or CSS-in-JS libraries like styled-components) in stylelint. You will need to install these custom syntaxes yourself. **If you use stylelint to lint anything other than CSS, you will likely need to change your [configuration object](../user-guide/configure.md).**

For example, to lint SCSS, install the [postcss-scss](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-scss) syntax as a dependency:

```shell
npm install --save-dev postcss-scss
```

Then, update your configuration object to use it:

```json
{
  "customSyntax": "postcss-scss",
  "rules": {
    ..
  }
}
```

Other [PostCSS syntaxes](https://github.com/postcss/postcss#syntaxes) known to be compatible with stylelint include:

- [postcss-less](https://github.com/shellscape/postcss-less)
- [postcss-sass](https://github.com/AleshaOleg/postcss-sass)
- [sugarss](https://github.com/postcss/sugarss)

If a PostCSS syntax doesn't exist for your choice of language or CSS-in-JS library, please consider creating it and sharing it with the community. It'll need to be compatible with version 8 of PostCSS.

If you lint more than one styling language, then you can use the new [`overrides` property](../user-guide/configure.md#overrides). For example, to lint both CSS and [SugarSS](https://github.com/postcss/sugarss) you can update your configuration object to include:

```json
{
  "extends": ["stylelint-config-standard"],
  "overrides": [
    {
      "files": ["**/*.sss"],
      "customSyntax": "sugarss",
      "rules": {
        "block-closing-brace-empty-line-before": null,
        "block-closing-brace-newline-after": null,
        "block-closing-brace-newline-before": null,
        "block-closing-brace-space-before": null,
        "block-opening-brace-newline-after": null,
        "block-opening-brace-space-after": null,
        "block-opening-brace-space-before": null,
        "declaration-block-semicolon-newline-after": null,
        "declaration-block-semicolon-space-after": null,
        "declaration-block-semicolon-space-before": null,
        "declaration-block-trailing-semicolon": null
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Which will extend the [offical standard config](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint-config-standard), then use the `overrides` property to set the `customSyntax` property and turn off the rules that check braces and semicolons for SugarSS files.

You can then use stylelint to lint both CSS and SugarSS files:

```console
npx stylelint "**/*.{css,sss}"
```

The `syntax` option has been removed and can no longer be used.

### `configOverrides` option

The `configOverrides` option has been removed. Use the [`overrides` property](../user-guide/configure.md#overrides) in the configuration object instead.

## Plugin authors

Version 8 of PostCSS is now used. However, you can't use the [new Visitor API](https://github.com/postcss/postcss/releases/tag/8.0.0) as stylelint plugins are converted to use `Once` by stylelint itself.

The behaviour of the parser has changed. The following is now parsed as a `Decl` when it was previously parsed as a `Rule`:

```css
foo: {
  bar: baz;
}
```

If your plugin targets this construct, you'll need to update your logic.
