lib/rules/length-zero-no-unit/README.md, before:

# length-zero-no-unit

Disallow units for zero lengths.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0px; }
/**      ↑↑
 * This zero and this type of length unit */
```

_Lengths_ refer to distance measurements. A length is a _dimension_, which is a _number_ immediately followed by a _unit identifier_. However, for zero lengths the unit identifier is optional. The length units are: `em`, `ex`, `ch`, `vw`, `vh`, `cm`, `mm`, `in`, `pt`, `pc`, `px`, `rem`, `vmin`, and `vmax`.

This rule ignores lengths within math functions (e.g. `calc`) in favor of the [`function-calc-no-invalid`](../function-calc-no-invalid/README.md) rule.

The [`fix` option](../../../docs/user-guide/usage/options.md#fix) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule.

## Options

### `true`

The following patterns are considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0px }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0.000em }
```

The following patterns are _not_ considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0 } /* no unit */
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { transition-delay: 0s; } /* dimension */
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 2in; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 1.001vh }
```

## Optional secondary options

### `ignore: ["custom-properties"]`

#### `"custom-properties"`

Ignore units for zero length in custom properties.

The following pattern is _not_ considered a violation:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { --x: 0px; }
```

Commit message:

issue#4831: length-zero-no-unit rule Readme updated

lib/rules/length-zero-no-unit/README.md, after:

# length-zero-no-unit

Disallow units for zero lengths.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0px; }
/**      ↑↑
 * This zero and this type of length unit */
```

_Lengths_ refer to distance measurements. A length is a _dimension_, which is a _number_ immediately followed by a _unit identifier_. However, for zero lengths the unit identifier is optional. The length units are: `em`, `ex`, `ch`, `vw`, `vh`, `cm`, `mm`, `in`, `pt`, `pc`, `px`, `rem`, `vmin`, and `vmax`.

This rule ignores lengths within math functions (e.g. `calc`) in favor of the [`function-calc-no-invalid`](../function-calc-no-invalid/README.md) rule.

This rule ignores length within first two values in `flex` shorthand (it can be unitless `flex-grow`/`flex-shrink` values instead of `flex-basis` length).

The [`fix` option](../../../docs/user-guide/usage/options.md#fix) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule.

## Options

### `true`

The following patterns are considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0px }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0.000em }
```

The following patterns are _not_ considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 0 } /* no unit */
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { transition-delay: 0s; } /* dimension */
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 2in; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { top: 1.001vh }
```

## Optional secondary options

### `ignore: ["custom-properties"]`

#### `"custom-properties"`

Ignore units for zero length in custom properties.

The following pattern is _not_ considered a violation:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { --x: 0px; }
```
