lib/rules/rule-empty-line-before/README.md, before:

# rule-empty-line-before

Require or disallow an empty line before rules.

```css
a {}
      /* ← */
b {}  /* ↑ */
/**      ↑
 * This line */
```

If the rule is the very first node in a stylesheet then it is ignored.

The `--fix` option on the [command line](../../../docs/user-guide/cli.md#autofixing-errors) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule. We recommend to enable [`indentation`](../indentation/README.md) rule for better autofixing results with this rule.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"|"always-multi-line"|"never-multi-line"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be an empty line before rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {} b {}
```

```css
a {}
b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be an empty line before rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {} b {}
```

```css
a {}
b {}
```

### `"always-multi-line"`

There *must always* be an empty line before multi-line rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}
b {
  color: blue;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}

b {
  color: blue;
}
```

### `"never-multi-line"`

There *must never* be an empty line before multi-line rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}

b {
  color: blue;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}
b {
  color: blue;
}
```

## Optional secondary options

### `except: ["after-rule", "after-single-line-comment", "inside-block-and-after-rule", "inside-block", "first-nested"]`

#### `"after-rule"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule comes after another rule.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}
b {}
```

#### `"after-single-line-comment"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule comes after a single-line comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
/* comment */

a {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
/* comment */
a {}
```

#### `"inside-block-and-after-rule"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is inside a block and comes after another rule.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
@media {

  a {}

  b {}
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}
  b {}
}
```

#### `"inside-block"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is inside a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```scss
a {
  color: red;

  b {
    color: blue;
  }
}

```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```scss
a {
  color: red;
  b {
    color: blue;
  }
}
```

#### `"first-nested"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is the first in a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
@media {

  a {}

  b {}
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}

  b {}
}
```

### `ignore: ["after-comment", "first-nested", "inside-block"]`

#### `"after-comment"`

Ignore rules that come after a comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
/* comment */
a {}
```

#### `"first-nested"`

Ignore rules that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}

  b {}
}
```

#### `"inside-block"`

Ignore rules that are inside a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}
}
```

```css
@media {
  a {}
  b {}
}
```

Commit message:

Fix ignores inconsistency in rule READMEs (#3360)
<!---
Please read the following. Pull requests that do not adhere to these guidelines will be closed.

Each pull request must, with the exception of minor documentation fixes, be associated with an open issue. If a corresponding issue does not exist please stop. Instead, create an issue so we can discuss the change first.

If there is an associated open issue, then the next step is to make sure you've read the relevant developer guide:

- Creating a new rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#creating-a-new-rule

- Adding an option to an existing rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#adding-an-option-to-an-existing-rule

- Fixing a bug in an existing rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#fixing-a-bug-in-an-existing-rule

Once you've done that, then please continue by answering these two questions:  -->

> Which issue, if any, is this issue related to?

Closes #3358

> Is there anything in the PR that needs further explanation?

No, it's self-explanatory.

lib/rules/rule-empty-line-before/README.md, after:

# rule-empty-line-before

Require or disallow an empty line before rules.

```css
a {}
      /* ← */
b {}  /* ↑ */
/**      ↑
 * This line */
```

This rule ignores rules that are the very first node in a source.

The `--fix` option on the [command line](../../../docs/user-guide/cli.md#autofixing-errors) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule. We recommend to enable [`indentation`](../indentation/README.md) rule for better autofixing results with this rule.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"|"always-multi-line"|"never-multi-line"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be an empty line before rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {} b {}
```

```css
a {}
b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be an empty line before rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {} b {}
```

```css
a {}
b {}
```

### `"always-multi-line"`

There *must always* be an empty line before multi-line rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}
b {
  color: blue;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}

b {
  color: blue;
}
```

### `"never-multi-line"`

There *must never* be an empty line before multi-line rules.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}

b {
  color: blue;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  color: red;
}
b {
  color: blue;
}
```

## Optional secondary options

### `except: ["after-rule", "after-single-line-comment", "inside-block-and-after-rule", "inside-block", "first-nested"]`

#### `"after-rule"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule comes after another rule.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

b {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}
b {}
```

#### `"after-single-line-comment"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule comes after a single-line comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
/* comment */

a {}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
/* comment */
a {}
```

#### `"inside-block-and-after-rule"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is inside a block and comes after another rule.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
@media {

  a {}

  b {}
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}
  b {}
}
```

#### `"inside-block"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is inside a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```scss
a {
  color: red;

  b {
    color: blue;
  }
}

```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```scss
a {
  color: red;
  b {
    color: blue;
  }
}
```

#### `"first-nested"`

Reverse the primary option if the rule is the first in a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
@media {

  a {}

  b {}
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}

  b {}
}
```

### `ignore: ["after-comment", "first-nested", "inside-block"]`

#### `"after-comment"`

Ignore rules that come after a comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
/* comment */
a {}
```

#### `"first-nested"`

Ignore rules that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}

  b {}
}
```

#### `"inside-block"`

Ignore rules that are inside a block.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
@media {
  a {}
}
```

```css
@media {
  a {}
  b {}
}
```
