lib/rules/function-whitespace-after/README.md, before:

# function-whitespace-after

Require or disallow whitespace after functions.

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
/**                           ↑
 *                   This space */
```

This rule does not check for space immediately after `)` if the very next character is `,`, `)`, `/` or `}`, allowing some of the patterns exemplified below.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be whitespace after the function.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
```

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)     scale(3); }
```

```css
a {
  transform:
    translate(1, 1)
    scale(3);
}
```

```css
/* notice the two closing parentheses without a space between */
a { top: calc(1 * (1 + 3)); }
```

```css
/* notice the ), with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a { padding: calc(1 * 2px), calc(2 * 5px); }
```

```scss
/* notice the )}, with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a {
  max-height: #{($line-height) * ($lines-to-show)}em;
}
```

```less
/* notice the )}, with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a {
  max-height: ((@line-height) * (@lines-to-show))em;
}
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be whitespace after the function.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```

Commit message:

Add autofix to function-whitespace-after (#3648)
> Which issue, if any, is this issue related to?

closes #3582

> Is there anything in the PR that needs further explanation?

ex.

* option: `always`

    code:
    ```css
    a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
    ```
    fixed:
    ```css
    a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
    ```

* option: `never`

    code:
    ```css
    a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
    ```

    fixed:
    ```css
    a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
    ```

lib/rules/function-whitespace-after/README.md, after:

# function-whitespace-after

Require or disallow whitespace after functions.

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
/**                           ↑
 *                   This space */
```

This rule does not check for space immediately after `)` if the very next character is `,`, `)`, `/` or `}`, allowing some of the patterns exemplified below.

The `--fix` option on the [command line](../../../docs/user-guide/cli.md#autofixing-errors) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be whitespace after the function.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
```

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)     scale(3); }
```

```css
a {
  transform:
    translate(1, 1)
    scale(3);
}
```

```css
/* notice the two closing parentheses without a space between */
a { top: calc(1 * (1 + 3)); }
```

```css
/* notice the ), with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a { padding: calc(1 * 2px), calc(2 * 5px); }
```

```scss
/* notice the )}, with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a {
  max-height: #{($line-height) * ($lines-to-show)}em;
}
```

```less
/* notice the )}, with no space after the closing parenthesis */
a {
  max-height: ((@line-height) * (@lines-to-show))em;
}
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be whitespace after the function.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1) scale(3); }
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a { transform: translate(1, 1)scale(3); }
```
