lib/rules/font-family-no-missing-generic-family-keyword/README.md, before:

# font-family-no-missing-generic-family-keyword

Disallow missing generic families in lists of font family names.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
/**                     ↑
 * An example of generic family name */
```

The generic font family can be:

- placed anywhere in the font family list
- omitted if a keyword related to property inheritance or a system font is used

This rule checks the `font` and `font-family` properties.

## Options

### `true`

The following patterns are considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Tahoma; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: 1em/1.3 Times; }
```

The following patterns are _not_ considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Tahoma, sans-serif; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: 1em/1.3 Times, serif, Apple Color Emoji; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: inherit; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: caption; }
```

## Optional secondary options

### `ignoreValues: ["custom-font"]`

Ignore this rule for specific font names that would not have an appropriate generic font family to fall back to. Commonly, this would be used for icon fonts.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: custom-font; }
```

Commit message:

Update Readme, use regex, and standard utilities

lib/rules/font-family-no-missing-generic-family-keyword/README.md, after:

# font-family-no-missing-generic-family-keyword

Disallow missing generic families in lists of font family names.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Arial, sans-serif; }
/**                     ↑
 * An example of generic family name */
```

The generic font family can be:

- placed anywhere in the font family list
- omitted if a keyword related to property inheritance or a system font is used

This rule checks the `font` and `font-family` properties.

## Options

### `true`

The following patterns are considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Tahoma; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: 1em/1.3 Times; }
```

The following patterns are _not_ considered violations:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Tahoma, sans-serif; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: 1em/1.3 Times, serif, Apple Color Emoji; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: inherit; }
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font: caption; }
```

## Optional secondary options

### `ignoreFontFamilies: : ["/regex/", /regex/, "string"]`

Given:

```
["custom-icon-font"]
```

The following pattern is not considered a violation:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```css
a { font-family: custom-font; }
```
