lib/rules/comment-empty-line-before/README.md, before:

# comment-empty-line-before

Require or disallow an empty line before comments.

```css
a {}
              /* ← */
/* comment */ /* ↑ */
/**              ↑
*        This line */
```

If the comment is the very first node in a stylesheet then it is ignored. Shared-line comments are also ignored.

If you're using a custom syntax which support single-line comments with `//`, those are ignored as well.

**Caveat:** Comments within *selector and value lists* are currently ignored.

The `--fix` option on the [command line](../../../docs/user-guide/cli.md#autofixing-errors) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule. We recommend to enable [`indentation`](../indentation/README.md) rule for better autofixing results with this rule.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be an empty line before comments.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}
/* comment */
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}

/* comment */
```

```css
a {} /* comment */
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be an empty line before comments.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

/* comment */
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}
/* comment */
```

```css
a {} /* comment */
```

## Optional secondary options

### `except: ["first-nested"]`

Reverse the primary option for comments that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {

  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

### `ignore: ["after-comment", "stylelint-commands"]`

#### `"after-comment"`

Don't require an empty line after a comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;

  /* comment */
  /* comment */
  color: #eee;
}
```

```css
a {
  background: pink;

  /* comment */

  /* comment */
  color: #eee;
}
```

#### `"stylelint-commands"`

Ignore comments that deliver commands to stylelint, e.g. `/* stylelint-disable color-no-hex */`.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;
  /* not a stylelint command */
  color: #eee;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;
  /* stylelint-disable color-no-hex */
  color: pink;
}
```

Commit message:

Fix ignores inconsistency in rule READMEs (#3360)
<!---
Please read the following. Pull requests that do not adhere to these guidelines will be closed.

Each pull request must, with the exception of minor documentation fixes, be associated with an open issue. If a corresponding issue does not exist please stop. Instead, create an issue so we can discuss the change first.

If there is an associated open issue, then the next step is to make sure you've read the relevant developer guide:

- Creating a new rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#creating-a-new-rule

- Adding an option to an existing rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#adding-an-option-to-an-existing-rule

- Fixing a bug in an existing rule: https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/master/docs/developer-guide/rules.md#fixing-a-bug-in-an-existing-rule

Once you've done that, then please continue by answering these two questions:  -->

> Which issue, if any, is this issue related to?

Closes #3358

> Is there anything in the PR that needs further explanation?

No, it's self-explanatory.

lib/rules/comment-empty-line-before/README.md, after:

# comment-empty-line-before

Require or disallow an empty line before comments.

```css
a {}
              /* ← */
/* comment */ /* ↑ */
/**              ↑
*        This line */
```

This rule ignores:

-   comments that are the very first node in the source
-   shared-line comments
-   single-line comments with `//` (when you're using a custom syntax that supports them)
-   comments within selector and value lists

The `--fix` option on the [command line](../../../docs/user-guide/cli.md#autofixing-errors) can automatically fix all of the problems reported by this rule. We recommend to enable [`indentation`](../indentation/README.md) rule for better autofixing results with this rule.

## Options

`string`: `"always"|"never"`

### `"always"`

There *must always* be an empty line before comments.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}
/* comment */
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}

/* comment */
```

```css
a {} /* comment */
```

### `"never"`

There *must never* be an empty line before comments.

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {}

/* comment */
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {}
/* comment */
```

```css
a {} /* comment */
```

## Optional secondary options

### `except: ["first-nested"]`

Reverse the primary option for comments that are nested and the first child of their parent node.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {

  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  /* comment */
  color: pink;
}
```

### `ignore: ["after-comment", "stylelint-commands"]`

#### `"after-comment"`

Don't require an empty line after a comment.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;

  /* comment */
  /* comment */
  color: #eee;
}
```

```css
a {
  background: pink;

  /* comment */

  /* comment */
  color: #eee;
}
```

#### `"stylelint-commands"`

Ignore comments that deliver commands to stylelint, e.g. `/* stylelint-disable color-no-hex */`.

For example, with `"always"`:

The following patterns are considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;
  /* not a stylelint command */
  color: #eee;
}
```

The following patterns are *not* considered violations:

```css
a {
  background: pink;
  /* stylelint-disable color-no-hex */
  color: pink;
}
```
